---
description: >-
  Fix pages published by PageFly losing styles on the storefront of a customer.
  This example is credited to ThanhLM (Kevin).
---

# 1. Understand the issue

When fixing a bug, the process of understanding the issue is the step to reproduce the bug and inspect the root cause. While reproducing the bug and inspecting the reason, we can use the recommended methods (either 5W1H, 5 Whys, or SMART, or all of them) in parallel to find the root cause.

### Define the issue

While inspecting the bug _"pages published by PageFly losing styles on the storefront of a customer"_, we can use the 5W1H in parallel as follows.

{% hint style="success" %}
**Topic:** Pages published by PageFly lose styles on the storefront of a customer.

**What:** Missing the page assets.

**Where:** On the storefront of a specific customer.

**When:** Viewing the published pages on the storefront.

**Why:** The Shopify theme on the storefront of the customer has 2 `</head>` tags placed inside a `if...else` statement.

**Who:** Dev team, customers, and the theme creator.

**How:** Ensure the loading of page assets does not depend on how a Shopify theme renders the `</head>` tag.
{% endhint %}

By answering the 5W1H questions, we understand that the root cause is _**a Shopify theme might have multiple `</head>` tags placed in a control statement but PageFly only inserts page assets before the first `</head>` tag**_.

|                                                                                                                        Current step | Next step                                                                                                                                 |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [#define-the-issue-using-the-5w1h-method](../processes/1.-understand-the-issue.md#define-the-issue-using-the-5w1h-method "mention") | [#analyze-the-issue-using-the-5-whys-method](../processes/1.-understand-the-issue.md#analyze-the-issue-using-the-5-whys-method "mention") |

### Analyze the issue

In my opinion, the 5 Whys method seems to be the most suitable method to find the root cause of a bug. We can use the 5 Whys method while inspecting the bug _"pages published by PageFly losing styles on the storefront of a customer"_ as follows.

{% hint style="success" %}
**Why do pages published by PageFly lose styles on the customer's storefront?**

\=> Because the page assets do not appear before the `</head>` tag.

**Why the page assets does not appear before the `</head>` tag?**

\=> Because PageFly only inserts page assets before the first `</head>` tag in the Shopify theme but the first `</head>` tag is not rendered on the storefront.

**Why the first `</head>` tag in the Shopify theme is not rendered on the storefront?**

\=> Because the Shopify theme puts it inside a `if...else` statement that causes when a required condition does not match, the second `</head>` tag will be rendered instead of the first `</head>` tag.

**Why does this Shopify theme do that?**

\=> It is a custom theme and we don't know why the theme creator does that.

**Why PageFly does not handle this case?**

\=> Because the developer did not think a non-standard case like this is allowed by Shopify.
{% endhint %}

Answering the 5 Whys, we know that the root cause of the bug is that _**PageFly does not handle Shopify themes having multiple `</head>` tags inside a control statement because the developer did not think a non-standard case like this is allowed by Shopify**_.

|                                                                                                                              Current step | Next step                                                                                                                           |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [#analyze-the-issue-using-the-5-whys-method](../processes/1.-understand-the-issue.md#analyze-the-issue-using-the-5-whys-method "mention") | [#frame-the-issue-using-the-smart-method](../processes/1.-understand-the-issue.md#frame-the-issue-using-the-smart-method "mention") |

### Frame the issue

Let's try the SMART method to understand the bug _"pages published by PageFly losing styles on the storefront of a customer"_.

{% hint style="success" %}
**Specific:** Pages published by PageFly lose styles on the storefront of a customer.

**Measurable:** Pages published by PageFly lose styles on the storefront of a customer because the Shopify theme has multiple `</head>` tags placed inside a `if...else` statement and PageFly inserts page assets into the theme by replacing the first `</head>` tag only.

**Achievable:** We need to ensure the loading of page assets does not depend on how a Shopify theme renders the `</head>` tag.

**Relevant:** PageFly also inserts page content by replacing the first occurrence of the `{{ content_for_layout }}` tag which might also be placed inside a `if...else` statement like the `</head>` tag in the Shopify theme of this customer. So, we also need to ensure the loading of page content does not depend on how a Shopify theme renders the `{{ content_for_layout }}` tags.

**Time-bound:** Fix the bug and other similarities as soon as possible.
{% endhint %}

Using the SMART method, we find that _**we need to ensure the loading of page assets and page content does not depend on how a Shopify theme renders `</head>` and `{{ content_for_layout }}` tags**_.

|                                                                    Current step | Next step                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [1.-understand-the-issue.md](../processes/1.-understand-the-issue.md "mention") | [2.-find-multiple-solutions.md](../processes/2.-find-multiple-solutions.md "mention") |
