---
description: >-
  Display a survey to PageFly users to collect their needs for the Black Friday
  campaign.
---

# 1. Understand the issue

#### Define the issue

Although the requirement is straightforward, we should still use the 5W1H method to define the request to _“display a survey to PageFly users to collect their needs for the Black Friday campaign”_.

{% hint style="success" %}
**Topic:** Collect the needs of PageFly users for their Black Friday campaign.

**What:** To understand the real needs of PageFly users for their Black Friday campaign.

**Who:** Marketing, design, and dev team.

**Where:** Regions where the Black Friday event will occur.

**When:** Before the Black Friday event occurs.

**Why:** Fulfilling users’ needs for their Black Friday campaign.

**How:** Display a survey on the dashboard and maybe other pages of PageFly to users who live in regions where the Black Friday event will occur.
{% endhint %}

By answering the 5W1H questions, we understand that the primary purpose of the issue is _**to understand users’ needs to make PageFly fulfill exactly what users need for their Black Friday campaign**_.

#### Analyze the issue

We can use the 5 Whys method to analyze the request to _“display a survey to PageFly users to collect their needs for the Black Friday campaign”_ as follows.

{% hint style="success" %}
**Why do we need to collect the needs of PageFly users for their Black Friday campaign?**

\=> To understand the users’ needs.

**Why do we need to understand the users’ needs?**

\=> To fulfill users’ needs.

**Why do we need to fulfill users’ needs?**

\=> To keep them using the app.

**Why do we need to keep users using the app?**

\=> If users use the app frequently, they will likely upgrade to a higher plan and pay us more.

**Why don’t we collect users’ needs on other events to keep them using the app more frequently?**

\=> We will also collect users’ needs at other times if needed.
{% endhint %}

Answering the 5 Whys, we know that the root cause for the issue is _**to keep users using PageFly and using it frequently by exactly fulfilling their needs at any specified time**_.

#### Frame the issue

We will use the SMART method to frame the request to _“display a survey to PageFly users to collect their needs for the Black Friday campaign”_ as follows.

{% hint style="success" %}
**Specific:** We will collect users’ needs.

**Measurable:** We will collect users’ needs for their Black Friday campaign, and there might be other events.

**Achievable:** We will collect users’ needs for their Black Friday campaign, and there might be other events, to understand what users need at a specified time.

**Relevant:** We will collect users’ needs for their Black Friday campaign, and there might be other events, to understand what users need at a specified time. Based on the users’ needs, our design team can create new features or update existing features for our app to serve users better, and our marketing team can create campaigns that are appropriate to users’ needs.

**Time-bound:** Before Black Friday occurs, and maybe at other times before some specific events, we will collect users’ needs for their sales campaign to understand what users need at a specified time. Based on the users’ needs, our design team can create new features or update existing features for our app to serve users better, and our marketing team can create campaigns that are appropriate to users’ needs.
{% endhint %}

Using the SMART method, we find that we will need _**to implement a solution that can flexibly collect users’ needs during a period and allow non-technical stakeholders to update the survey and see the results**_.

|                                                                    Current step | Next step                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [1.-understand-the-issue.md](../processes/1.-understand-the-issue.md "mention") | [2.-find-multiple-solutions.md](../processes/2.-find-multiple-solutions.md "mention") |
