# 1. Understand the issue

When solving problems, there are different ways to understand the problem. However, to completely understand a problem, splitting it into several pieces is recommended. Generally, the process of understanding a problem can be four steps: define the problem, analyze the problem, frame the problem, and evaluate the problem.

In my opinion, when resolving issues, the understanding process is similar. However, the last step, evaluating the problem, is not to deeply understand the issue but to choose the simplest but most effective solution from feasible solutions to resolve the issue. In the step to understand the issue, I recommend defining the issue, analyzing the issue, and framing the issue.

#### 1.1. Define the issue

The 5W1H method can help define the issue clearly and precisely and avoid confusion, ambiguity, and irrelevant information.

Let’s say you have assigned a Jira issue to _“display a survey to PageFly users to collect their needs for the Black Friday campaign”_. Although the requirement is straightforward, we should still use the 5W1H method to define the issue.

{% hint style="success" %}
**Topic:** Collect the needs of PageFly users for their Black Friday campaign.

**What:** To understand the real needs of PageFly users for their Black Friday campaign.

**Who:** Marketing, design, and dev team.

**Where:** Regions where the Black Friday event will occur.

**When:** Before the Black Friday event occurs.

**Why:** Fulfilling users’ needs for their Black Friday campaign.

**How:** Display a survey on the dashboard and maybe other pages of PageFly to users who live in regions where the Black Friday event will occur.
{% endhint %}

By answering the 5W1H questions, we understand that the primary purpose of the issue is _**to understand users’ needs to make PageFly fulfill exactly what users need for their Black Friday campaign**_.

#### 1.2. Analyze the issue

Analyzing the problem and identifying its root causes will help you understand why the problem exists and what factors contribute to it. To analyze the problem, you can use the 5 Whys method.

For the request to _“display a survey to PageFly users to collect their needs for the Black Friday campaign”_, we can use the 5 Whys method to analyze the problem as follows.

{% hint style="success" %}
**Why do we need to collect the needs of PageFly users for their Black Friday campaign?**

\=> To understand the users’ needs.

**Why do we need to understand the users’ needs?**

\=> To fulfill users’ needs.

**Why do we need to fulfill users’ needs?**

\=> To keep them using the app.

**Why do we need to keep users using the app?**

\=> If users use the app frequently, they will likely upgrade to a higher plan and pay us more.

**Why don’t we collect users’ needs on other events to keep them using the app more frequently?**

\=> We will also collect users’ needs at other times if needed.
{% endhint %}

Answering the 5 Whys, we know that the root cause for the issue is _**to keep users using PageFly and using it frequently by exactly fulfilling their needs at any specified time**_.

#### 1.3. Frame the issue

Framing the problem and defining its scope and boundaries will help focus on the most relevant and important aspects of the problem and avoid distractions and biases. Making the problem statement specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound (the SMART method) can help frame the problem.

We will use the SMART method to frame the request to _“display a survey to PageFly users to collect their needs for the Black Friday campaign”_.

{% hint style="success" %}
**Specific:** We will collect users’ needs.

**Measurable:** We will collect users’ needs for their Black Friday campaign, and there might be other events.

**Achievable:** We will collect users’ needs for their Black Friday campaign, and there might be other events, to understand what users need at a specified time.

**Relevant:** We will collect users’ needs for their Black Friday campaign, and there might be other events, to understand what users need at a specified time. Based on the users’ needs, our design team can create new features or update existing features for our app to serve users better, and our marketing team can create campaigns that are appropriate to users’ needs.

**Time-bound:** Before Black Friday occurs, and maybe at other times before some specific events, we will collect users’ needs for their sales campaign to understand what users need at a specified time. Based on the users’ needs, our design team can create new features or update existing features for our app to serve users better, and our marketing team can create campaigns that are appropriate to users’ needs.
{% endhint %}

Using the SMART method, we find that we will need _**to implement a solution that can flexibly collect users’ needs during a period and allow non-technical stakeholders to see the results**_.
