# 1. Understand the issue

When solving problems, there are different ways to understand the problem. However, to completely understand a problem, splitting it into several pieces is recommended. Generally, the process of understanding a problem can be four steps: define the problem, analyze the problem, frame the problem, and evaluate the problem.

In my opinion, when resolving issues, the understanding process is similar. However, the last step, evaluating the problem, is not to deeply understand the issue but to choose the simplest but most effective solution from feasible solutions to resolve the issue. In the step to understand the issue, I recommend defining the issue, analyzing the issue, and framing the issue.

#### 1.1. Define the issue

The 5W1H method can help define the issue clearly and precisely and avoid confusion, ambiguity, and irrelevant information.

#### 1.2. Analyze the issue

Analyzing the problem and identifying its root causes will help you understand why the problem exists and what factors contribute to it. To analyze the problem, you can use the 5 Whys method.

#### 1.3. Frame the issue

Framing the problem and defining its scope and boundaries will help focus on the most relevant and important aspects of the problem and avoid distractions and biases. Making the problem statement specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound (the SMART method) can help frame the problem.

#### 1.4. Conclusion

PageFly is an application embedded in the Shopify admin UI and uses APIs provided by Shopify to work with data stored on Shopify servers. This situation causes some limitations to the app.

One of the limitations is that PageFly is loaded and runs inside an iframe on the Shopify admin UI. This behavior causes setting 3rd-party cookies is not allowed.

{% hint style="info" %}
If you realize that the issue has no solution due to some limitations from Shopify that PageFly cannot control, you should report it to the issue creator **as soon as possible** to adjust the requirements.
{% endhint %}

{% content-ref url="../example-1.md" %}
[example-1.md](../example-1.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}
