# 3. Choose one solution

In software development, a **simple** solution can save a lot of coding, understanding, and debugging hours, not only for the developer who implements it but also for other developers who maintain it later.

We should rely on **simplicity**, **modularity**, **reusability**, and **flexibility** to evaluate and score each solution by **impact**, **confidence**, and **ease** (the ICE scoring method). Reusability and flexibility can be used to estimate the impact score from 1 to 10. Modularity can be used to estimate the confidence score from 1 to 10. Simplicity can be used to estimate the ease score from 1 to 10. Then, you can sum the three scores to produce the final ICE score.

{% hint style="success" %}
After evaluating **impact**, **confidence**, and **ease** scores for each solution, we can base on the ICE scores to find the simplest and most effective solution in every specific situation.
{% endhint %}

After scoring all solutions, we mostly can conclude the simplest and most effective solution. But wait, we need to consider the required time-to-market (the due date of the Jira issue) before making the final decision.

{% hint style="success" %}
The simplest and most effective solution is usually the solution that is **overall** and can be used for **a long time** without the need to update and redistribute code. But, if limited by the time-to-market, we can **temporarily** implement another solution that needs less time. Then, implement the overall and long-term solution later.
{% endhint %}

&#x20;If you cannot make a final decision, don't be afraid to discuss it with your teammates or leaders for more points of view.

#### Examples

* [Example 1](../example-1/3.-choose-one-solution.md)
